README.md, before:

user_sql
========

**Owncloud/Nextcloud SQL user authentication.**

![](https://github.com/nextcloud/user_sql/blob/master/screenshot.png)

## Getting Started
1. SSH into your server

2. Get into the apps folder of your NextCloud installation, for example /var/www/nextcloud/apps

3. Git clone this project
```
git clone https://github.com/nextcloud/user_sql.git
```

4. Login your NextCloud as admin

5. Navigate to Apps from the menu and enable the SQL user backend 

6. Navigate to Admin from menu and switch to Additional Settings, scroll down the page and you will see SQL User Backend settings

## Integrations

### WordPress
Thanks to this app, NextCloud can easily integrate with Wordpress.

In the Column Setting of SQL User Backend, configure it as
```
Table: wp_users
Username Column: user_login
Password Column: user_pass
Encryption Type: Joomla > 2.5.18 phppass
```
## Features
Currently, it supports most of postfixadmin's encryption options, except dovecot and saslauthd.
It was tested and developed for a postfixadmin database.

Password changing is disabled by default, but can be enabled in the Admin area.
Caution: user_sql does not recreate password salts, which imposes a security risk. 
Password salts should be newly generated whenever the password changes.

Supervision can be enabled under supervisor settings. Supervision allows one
specified user to login into any account. Use supervisor username and target 
username separated by ';' to login as target user using supervisor's password 
(ex. superuser;user).

The column autocomplete works only for MySQL and PostgreSQL database which is used to validate form data.
If you use other database use *occ* command to set the application config parameters with domain suffix.

For example to set 'sql_hostname' parameter in default domain use:

```occ config:app:set user_sql 'sql_hostname_default' --value='localhost'```

### Currently supported parameters

- sql_hostname
- sql_username
- sql_password
- sql_database
- sql_table
- sql_driver
- col_username
- col_password
- col_active
- col_displayname
- col_email
- col_gethome
- set_active_invert
- set_supervisor
- supervisor
- set_allow_pwchange
- set_default_domain
- set_strip_domain
- set_crypt_type
- set_mail_sync_mode
- set_enable_gethome
- set_gethome_mode
- set_gethome
- sql_group_table
- col_group_username
- col_group_name

## Acknowledgments
This repository contains continuation of work done in [this repo](https://www.aboehler.at/hg/user_sql/).

This plugin is heavily based on user_imap, user_pwauth, user_ldap and user_redmine!

### Credits

  * Andreas Boehler for releasing the first version of this application
  * Johan Hendriks provided his user_postfixadmin
  * Ed Wildgoose for fixing possible SQL injection vulnerability

Commit message:

Added WP PrivateContent Plugin tutorial

README.md, after:

user_sql
========

**Owncloud/Nextcloud SQL user authentication.**

![](https://github.com/nextcloud/user_sql/blob/master/screenshot.png)

## Getting Started
1. SSH into your server

2. Get into the apps folder of your NextCloud installation, for example /var/www/nextcloud/apps

3. Git clone this project
```
git clone https://github.com/nextcloud/user_sql.git
```

4. Login your NextCloud as admin

5. Navigate to Apps from the menu and enable the SQL user backend 

6. Navigate to Admin from menu and switch to Additional Settings, scroll down the page and you will see SQL User Backend settings

## Integrations

### WordPress
Thanks to this app, NextCloud can easily integrate with Wordpress.

In the Column Setting of SQL User Backend, configure it as
```
Table: wp_users
Username Column: user_login
Password Column: user_pass
Encryption Type: Joomla > 2.5.18 phppass
```

### WordPress (PrivateContent Plugin)
Thanks to this app, NextCloud can easily integrate with Wordpress PrivateContent Plugin.

In the Column Setting of SQL User Backend, configure it as
```
Table: wp_pc_users
Username Column: username
Password Column: psw
Encryption Type: WP PrivateContent Plugin
User Active Column: status
```
## Features
Currently, it supports most of postfixadmin's encryption options, except dovecot and saslauthd.
It was tested and developed for a postfixadmin database.

Password changing is disabled by default, but can be enabled in the Admin area.
Caution: user_sql does not recreate password salts, which imposes a security risk. 
Password salts should be newly generated whenever the password changes.

Supervision can be enabled under supervisor settings. Supervision allows one
specified user to login into any account. Use supervisor username and target 
username separated by ';' to login as target user using supervisor's password 
(ex. superuser;user).

The column autocomplete works only for MySQL and PostgreSQL database which is used to validate form data.
If you use other database use *occ* command to set the application config parameters with domain suffix.

For example to set 'sql_hostname' parameter in default domain use:

```occ config:app:set user_sql 'sql_hostname_default' --value='localhost'```

### Currently supported parameters

- sql_hostname
- sql_username
- sql_password
- sql_database
- sql_table
- sql_driver
- col_username
- col_password
- col_active
- col_displayname
- col_email
- col_gethome
- set_active_invert
- set_supervisor
- supervisor
- set_allow_pwchange
- set_default_domain
- set_strip_domain
- set_crypt_type
- set_mail_sync_mode
- set_enable_gethome
- set_gethome_mode
- set_gethome
- sql_group_table
- col_group_username
- col_group_name

## Acknowledgments
This repository contains continuation of work done in [this repo](https://www.aboehler.at/hg/user_sql/).

This plugin is heavily based on user_imap, user_pwauth, user_ldap and user_redmine!

### Credits

  * Andreas Boehler for releasing the first version of this application
  * Johan Hendriks provided his user_postfixadmin
  * Ed Wildgoose for fixing possible SQL injection vulnerability
